Let's move the Christmas example to the database and do some more fun with it.
INVOICES   - unique reference, debtor reference, amount, type, due date, creation date
PAYMENTS - unique reference, payer reference, amount, type, received date, creation date
MATCHING - unique reference, invoice reference, payment reference, amount, matching date
INDIVIDUAL - unique reference, name, type (physical or not)
CONTACTS - unique reference, individual reference, type (GSM, EMAIL, ... ), contact, status (active or not)
Each invoice has only one individual
One payment could have only one individual
One invoice could be matched to many payments
One payment could be matched to many invoices
Only one record could exists for the couple invoice-payment in the matching table.
One individual could be free of this to be debtor or payer
Individual could have many contact details
SQL statements:
1. Create the structure and relations between the tables
2. List of all debtors which have open (not fully paid) invoices which are overdue
3. List all payers which have overpaid their debts
4. List of all debtors who doesn't have any active contact details
5. As before, prepare a suitable message for all individuals according to their balance
Overpaid - "Your generosity will help others. Thank you kindly for your actions, I'll hope to have great time during the holidays and you should expect my present."
Balance 0 - "You were nice kid this year, Santa will bring you a present"
Balance 1 - 10  - "I see you try hard this year, I'll bring you a present to show my good will"
Balance 11 - 50 - "You'll take an accounting class this year in order to have better finance understanding"
Over 51        - "You need some serious help and my powers are not enough. The change should be starting from you. I'll give you time to reconsider your actions."
Enjoy!


Type of invoice - principal, interest, taxes, penalty (лихва, такса и т.н.)
Type of payment - начин на плащане(ot nas kym debtora ili debtora kym nas)
MATCHING - 

PRIMARY KEY IN MATCHING SHOULD BE INVOICE ID AND PAYMENT ID